typo fixs 2024-07-04-of-grammatology-ipfs-as-language-family.md (#2)
learningproof/websitev2: _posts/2024-07-04-of-grammatology-ipfs-as-language-family.md

An objective (and interoperability-oriented) map of the territory would probably look like a sprawling Venn diagram of toolchains and technologies, each of which plays nicely with its neighbors but laboriously with its cousins.
As with any family tree (of language, of humans, or of technologies) there has been some serious drift over the years, and specialization, and adaption to different environments.
And like languages, technologies can also drift into mutual incomprehensibility after enough drift and specialization: dialects becoming languages, translators become necessary, and thus dictionaries and reference grammars becoming necessary for scaling them up.

I'd like to sketch out one possible map of the territory, for organizing backlogs and futures and community governances and whatnot.

_I'll do my best to keep it funny and goofy, but this is basically a longform report-out of months of research and conversations and dredging github threads to tease out the shape of interop pasts and futures, so forgive the passionate verbosity._

## From Principles to Systems Made Up of Components

> The broadest and currently-canonical definition of "what IPFS is" can be found in Robin Berjon's "[IPFS Principles](https://github.com/learningproof/websitev2/blob/main/_posts/2024-07-04-of-grammatology-ipfs-as-language-family.md)" document, which defines the particular IPFS flavor of Postel's Law by which arbitrary data is broken up into 1 or more content identifiers and passed around a system between storage providers and consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The broadest and currently-canonical definition of "what IPFS is" can be found in Robin Berjon's "[IPFS Principles](https://specs.ipfs.tech/architecture/principles/)" document, which defines the particular IPFS flavor of Postel's Law by which arbitrary data is broken up into 1 or more content identifiers and passed around a system between storage providers and consumers.
```
